# Evaluation of Deep Learning models on UV ink : a Fake Money detection scheme with RPN
## Abstract
As soon as coins or money was invented, there were people trying to make counterfeits. Counterfeit money is fake money that is produced without the permission of the state or government, usually to imitate the currency and deceive the intended recipient. In Bangladesh, this is a significant problem and the problem is becoming more and more phenomenon as the days are passing by. Today's modern bank notes have several security features that makes easier to identify fake notes. One of the security features is the use of UV ink. Bank notes deliberately put random flecks of color scattered all over the surface of the money - which acts as a extra layer of protection against counterfeiters.  We propose an automatic authentication model for identifying counterfeit money based on these random flecks of color which is visible under UV light. To obtain a benchmark result, existing object detection pre-trained models were used, followed by MobileNet, Inception, ResNet50, ResNet101, and Inception-ResNet architectures. After that, using the Region Proposal Network (RPN) method with Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based classification the optimal model was proposed. The proposed model had a \textit{96.3} percent accuracy. It is critical to reduce the circulation of counterfeit money in a country's economy to stop inflation. This study will aid in the detection of counterfeit money and, hopefully, reduce its spread.
